troubleshooting: stylistic cleanup (#1495)
fluent/fluent-bit-docs: administration/troubleshooting.md

  --trace                 setup a trace pipeline on startup. Uses a single line, ie: "input=dummy.0 output=stdout output.format='json'"
```

If the `--enable-chunk-trace` option is present, your Fluent Bit version supports

> Fluent Bit Tap but it's disabled by default. Use this option to enable it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fluent Bit Tap, but it's disabled by default. Use this option to enable it.
```

[0] dummy.0: [[1689971342.068613646, {}], {"message"=>"dummy"}]
```

With that option set, the stdout plugin emits traces in `json_lines` format:

```json
{"date":1689971340.068745,"type":1,"trace_id":"0","plugin_instance":"dummy.0","records":[{"timestamp":1689971340,"record":{"message":"dummy"}}],"start_time":1689971340,"end_time":1689971340}
```

All three options can also be defined using the more flexible `--trace` option:

```bash
fluent-bit -Z -i dummy -o stdout -f 1 --trace="input=dummy.0 output=stdout output.format=json_lines"
```

> This example defines the tap pipeline using this configuration: `input=dummy.0 output=stdout output.format=json_lines` which defines the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example defines the Tap pipeline using this configuration: `input=dummy.0 output=stdout output.format=json_lines` which defines the following:
```

> - `input`: `dummy.0` - listens to the tag or alias `dummy.0`
> - `output`: `stdout` - outputs to a stdout plugin
> - `output.format`: `json_lines` - sets the stdout format to `json_lines`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `input`: `dummy.0` listens to the tag or alias `dummy.0`.
- `output`: `stdout` outputs to a stdout plugin.
- `output.format`: `json_lines` sets the stdout format to `json_lines`.
```

Author: yeah i debated wht do do here because I wasn't sure that the two code fences would not be confusing but I'm also 🤷🏼

[2022/10/21 10:49:25] [ info] [output:null:null.0] thread worker #0 stopping...
[2022/10/21 10:49:25] [ info] [output:null:null.0] thread worker #0 stopped
```

### Parameters for the output in Tap

When activating Tap, any plugin parameter can be given. These parameters can be used
to modify the output format, the name of the time key, the format of the date, and
other details.

> The following example uses the parameter ```"format": "json"``` to demonstrate how

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example uses the parameter `"format": "json"` to demonstrate how
```

Author: shoot I missed that one, there were more.

> to show `stdout` in `JSON` format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to show `stdout` in JSON format.
```

[{"date":1674805636.974008,"type":1,"trace_id":"2","plugin_instance":"dummy.0","plugin_alias":"input_dummy","records":[{"timestamp":1674805636,"record":{"message":"dummy"}}],"start_time":1674805636,"end_time":1674805636},{"date":1674805636.974034,"type":3,"trace_id":"2","plugin_instance":"dummy.0","plugin_alias":"input_dummy","records":[{"timestamp":1674805636,"record":{"message":"dummy"}}],"start_time":1674805636,"end_time":1674805636}]
```

This parameter shows stdout in JSON format.

See [output plugins](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/outputs) for
additional information.

### Analyze a single Tap record

This filter record is an example to explain the details of a Tap record:

```json
{
   "type": 2,
   "start_time": 1666349231,
   "end_time": 1666349231,
   "trace_id": "trace.1",
   "plugin_instance": "nest.2",
   "records": [{
      "timestamp": 1666349231,
      "record": {
         "dummy": "dummy_0",
         "powered_by": "fluent",
         "data": {
            "key_name": "foo",
            "key_cnt": "1"
         }
      }
   }]
}
```

- `type`: Defines the stage the event is generated:
  - `1`: Input record. This is the unadulterated input record.

>   - `2`: Filtered record. This is a record once it has been filtered. One record is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `2`: Filtered record. This is a record after it was filtered. One record is
```

    generated per filter.
  - `3`: Pre-output record. This is the record right before it's sent for output.

  This example is a record generated by the manipulation of a record by a filter so
  it has the type `2`.
- `start_time` and `end_time`: Records the start and end of an event, and is
  different for each event type:

>   - type 1: When the input is received, both the start and end time.

Reviewer: Should `type 1` and the others be in backticks? Not sure if they're actual values.

Author: iffy, if it was just `1`, yes, but here I decided to leave it.

I think that's a thing that may need overall reviewing.

- `plugin_instance`: The plugin instance name as generated by Fluent Bit at runtime.
- `plugin_alias`: If an alias is set this field will contain the alias set for a plugin.
- `records`: An array of all the records being sent. Fluent Bit handles records in
  chunks of multiple records and chunks are indivisible, the same is done in the Tap
  output. Each record consists of its timestamp followed by the actual data which is
  a composite type of keys and values.

## Dump Internals / Signal

When the service is running, you can export [metrics](monitoring.md) to see the
overall status of the data flow of the service. There are other use cases where
you might need to know the current status of the service internals, like the current
status of the internal buffers. Dump Internals can help provide this information.

Fluent Bit v1.4 introduced the Dump Internals feature, which can be triggered from
the command line triggering the `CONT` Unix signal.

{% hint style="info" %}
This feature is only available on Linux and BSD operating systems.
{% endhint %}

### Usage

Run the following `kill` command to signal Fluent Bit:

```shell
kill -CONT `pidof fluent-bit`
```

> The command `pidof` aims to lookup the Process ID of Fluent Bit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command `pidof` aims to identify the Process ID of Fluent Bit.
```

   └─ down       : 57
```

### Input plugins

The input plugins dump provides insights for every input instance configured.

### Status

Overall ingestion status of the plugin.

| Entry | Sub-entry | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `overlimit` |  | If the plugin has been configured with [`Mem_Buf_Limit`](backpressure.md), this entry will report if the plugin is over the limit or not at the moment of the dump. Over the limit prints `yes`, otherwise `no`. |
|  | `mem_size` | Current memory size in use by the input plugin in-memory. |
|  | `mem_limit` | Limit set by `Mem_Buf_Limit`. |

### Tasks

When an input plugin ingests data into the engine, a Chunk is created. A Chunk can
contains multiple records. At flush time, the engine creates a Task that contains the
routes for the Chunk associated in question.

The Task dump describes the tasks associated to the input plugin:

| Entry | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `total_tasks` | Total number of active tasks associated to data generated by the input plugin. |

> | `new` | Number of tasks not assigned yet to an output plugin. Tasks are in `new` status for a very short period of time. This value is normally very low or zero. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `new` | Number of tasks not yet assigned to an output plugin. Tasks are in `new` status for a very short period of time. This value is normally very low or zero. |
```
